.TH jailkit 8 10-05-2004 JAILKIT jailkit

.SH NAME
jailkit \- utilities for jailing a user or process

.SH DESCRIPTION

Jailkit is a set of utilities to limit user accounts to a specific directory and to specific commands. Setting up a jail is a lot easier using these utilities. A jail is a directory in your system, and the user cannot see/do anything outside that directory. The user is jailed in the directory. The 
.BR chroot(2)
system call is used to put the user inside the jail.

If you want the user to be able to do one thing, that one thing should be possible inside the jail. For example if you want the user to be able to run scp, you need to have a copy of scp installed in the jail, and also means to execute it (a shell). As you understand, the fewer executables you have in a jail, and the harder they are to start them, the more work a hacker needs to break out of it.

.SH SECURITY CONSIDERATIONS

DO NOT RELY ON THE JAIL. If you don't trust a process on a regular system, don't trust it in a jail. A bad configured jail might even make the situation worse!

The super user (root), or any process running with root privileges, can break out of a jail created with 
.BR chroot(2)
It is therefore important that the jail does not contain any files that are set user id root (also called setuid).

Normal users can create files that are setuid (set user id) root, creating a hardlink to an existing setuid root binary. For example 'ln /bin/su /jail/my_su' will create a setuid root binary in /jail/. If the user now modifies /jail/lib/libc... or /jail/etc/passwd the user might gain root privileges! 
.B No directory
inside the jail 
.B except
for the homedirectory should, therefore, be writable by the user. Especially the jail directory itself should 
.B not be writable
by the user. If the jail is on a separate filesystem, furthermore, this jail filesystem can mounted with the 
.I nosuid
flag.

.SH CONTENTS

.BR jk_init
can be used to quickly create a jail with several files or directories needed for a specific task. There are many tasks in
.I /etc/jailkit/jk_init.ini
predefined. For example a limited shell, a jail to run apache, a jail for just sftp and scp can be quickly set it up by jk_init. It will copy the binaries, the required libraries (and symlinks) and other files like /etc/passwd

.BR jk_cp
can be used to copy a file into a jail, the file will be copied with the same permissions, except for any setuid or setgid permissions, they are removed. If the file is a binary executable, the libraries are copied as well.

.BR jk_check
can be used to check a jail for any potential security problems. It checks for setuid and setgid programs, it checks for any modified programs, it checks for world writable directories and more. Very convenient to run daily from the cron daemon. It is controlled by
.I /etc/jailkit/jk_check.ini
.

.BR jk_chrootsh
is a shell for a user that will jail the user in a specific directory, called the JAIL. It does this by using the chroot (change root) system call. The JAIL must contain some basic files, like /etc/passwd and a shell to execute. jk_chrootsh will read the shell to execute inside the JAIL from
.I JAIL/etc/passwd.
jk_chrootsh is typically run from 
.I /etc/passwd
as default shell for some user.

.BR jk_lsh
is a limited shell, that will only allow certain commands to be executed based on a config file
.I /etc/jailkit/jk_lsh.ini.
It is typically started from 
.I /etc/passwd
or started by jk_chrootsh inside a jail from
.I JAIL/etc/passwd
(recommended) in which case the config file is 
.I JAIL/etc/jailkit/jk_lsh.ini.
Use this program if you want to deny regular shell access (e.g. logins) but you want to allow execution from commands like sftp, scp, rsync or cvs.

.BR jk_socketd
is a daemon that will allow logging to syslog from a jail, in a safe way. It will limit the logging rate based on 
.I /etc/jailkit/jk_socketd.ini

.BR jk_chrootlaunch
is a utility to start a daemon that cannot do a 
.BR chroot(2) 
call itself in a jail. It can change the user and group id after jailing the process, and before executing the daemon.

.BR jk_addjailuser
is a script to add a user both in the real /etc/passwd as in the JAIL/etc/passwd

.BR jk_procmailwrapper
is a wrapper for procmail, it will run the .procmailrc from jailed users inside the jail, the .procmailrc from regular users on the normal system.

.SH EXAMPLE

Suppose you need to create an account 'test' that can do sftp and scp
only. You want it in a jail called /home/sftproot where it will have 
a homedirectory /home/test
.nf
.sp
#initialise the jail
mkdir /home/sftproot
jk_init /home/sftproot jk_lsh
jk_init /home/sftproot sftp
jk_init /home/sftproot scp
# create the account
jk_addjailuser /home/sftproot test
# edit the jk_lsh configfile in the jail, see man jk_lsh
# you can use every editor you want, I chose 'joe'
joe /home/sftproot/etc/jailkit/jk_lsh.ini
# now restart jk_socketd
killall jk_socketd
jk_socketd
# test the account
sftp test@localhost
# check the logs if everything is correct
tail /var/log/daemon.log /var/log/auth.log
.fi

.SH FILES

The jailkit config files are all located in 
.I /etc/jailkit/

.SH "SEE ALSO"

.BR jk_check(8)
.BR jk_chrootlaunch(8)
.BR jk_chrootsh(8)
.BR jk_cp(8)
.BR jk_init(8)
.BR jk_lsh(8)
.BR jk_procmailwrapper(8)
.BR jk_socketd(8)
.BR chroot(2)

.SH COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2003, 2004, 2005, Olivier Sessink

Copying and distribution of this file, with or without modification,
are permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright
notice and this notice are preserved.
