.TH jk_check 8 07-12-2003 JAILKIT jk_check

.SH NAME
jk_check \- a utility that will check a jail for security problems

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B jk_check jail

.B jk_check -v -c configfile jail

.SH DESCRIPTION

jk_check will run several tests on all files and directories in a jail. The tests are:

-test for setuid (set user id) or setgid (set group id) files

-test for file modifications, using an MD5 checksum on the file in the jail and the same file in the real root

-test for group writable or world writable directories

It will test directories based on the config file
.I /etc/jailkit/jk_check.ini

.SS "Minimal configfile"
The most minimal configuration looks like:

.nf
.sp
[/home/testchroot]
.fi

This will include all the files and directories in /home/testchroot for testing.

.SS "More extended configfile"

Often you want to ignore some tests on some directories, the following configfile shows some examples:

.nf
.sp
[/home/testchroot]
ignorepatheverywhere =
ignorepathoncompare = /home/testchroot/home, /home/testchroot/etc
ignorewritableforgroup = /home/testchroot/home
ignorewritableforothers = /home/testchroot/home/tmp
ignoresetuidexecuteforuser = /home/testchroot/usr/bin/smbmnt
ignoresetuidexecuteforgroup = /home/testchroot/usr/bin/smbmnt
ignoresetuidexecuteforothers =
.fi

ignorepatheverywhere
.RS
no single test is performed in these directories. You should not use this option unless you what you are doing.
.RE
ignorepathoncompare
.RS
files in listed directories are not compared with their non-jail counterparts. Useful for directories like /etc/ and /home/ where you know you'll have different files inside the jail and outside the jail
.RE
ignorewritableforgroup
.RS
listed directories that are writable for the group are not reported
.RE
ignorewritableforothers
.RS
listed directories that are writable for others are not reported
.RE
ignoresetuidexecuteforuser
.RS
ignore the setuid bit on a file that is executable for a user, a file with -rws------ permissions that is. Use with care! Remember that user root can break out of a jail, therefore any program running with root priviledges is theoretically capable of breaking out of the jail!
.RE
ignoresetuidexecuteforgroup
.RS
ignore the setuid bit for a file that is executable for the group, a file with -rws--x--- permissions that is.
.RE
ignoresetuidexecuteforothers
.RS
ignore the setuid bit for a file that is executable for others, a file with -rws--x--x permissions that is
.RE

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.BR \-v
Will give verbose output
.TP
.BR \-c\ configfile
Use alternative configfile
.TP
.BR \-h
The help screen

.SH FILES
.I /etc/jailkit/jk_check.ini

.SH AUTHOR

Jailkit is written by Olivier Sessink

.SH "SEE ALSO"

.BR jailkit(8)
.BR jk_lsh(8)
.BR jk_init(8)
.BR jk_cp(8)
.BR jk_addjailuser(8)
.BR jk_socketd(8)
.BR jk_chrootsh(8)
.BR jk_chrootlaunch(8)
