.TH jk_init 8 29-01-2004 JAILKIT jk_init

.SH NAME
jk_init \- a utility to quicky create functional jail directories

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B jk_init jail section

.B jk_init -v -f jail section

.SH DESCRIPTION

It is not an easy task to setup a jail (a changed root) in a functional way. If you want the user to be able to run cvs for example, it will not work to simply copy the cvs binary into the users jail. You will find that cvs needs libraries as well. Using
.B ldd /usr/bin/cvs
you can see all the libraries needed by cvs. Many of those libraries are actually symlinks, so you you have to copy both the library files and create new symlinks. Also cvs needs the /dev/null device. Finally you need to start cvs: you need a shell too. And the shell might need files like /etc/passwd and /etc/nsswitch.conf.

jk_init can do most of these things for you. There are many predefined sections in the configfile
.I /etc/jailkit/jk_init.ini
where you can simply choose one, and jk_init can copy all required files.

.SH LIMITATIONS

Many unix like operating systems install files in different locations. jk_init has defaults taken from Debian and Ubuntu. It may not work on other platforms. Customizing jk_init.ini for your platform might be required.

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.BR \-f\ \-\-force
Force overwriting of existing files
.TP
.BR \-v\ \-\-verbose
Will give verbose output
.TP
.BR \-c\ configfile\ \-\-configfile=configfile
Use alternative configfile
.TP
.BR \-l\ \-\-list 
List available sections in the config file
.TP
.BR \-h\ \-\-help
The help screen

.SH FILES
.I /etc/jailkit/jk_init.ini

.SH "SEE ALSO"

.BR jailkit(8)
.BR jk_check(8)
.BR jk_chrootlaunch(8)
.BR jk_chrootsh(8)
.BR jk_cp(8)
.BR jk_init(8)
.BR jk_lsh(8)
.BR jk_procmailwrapper(8)
.BR jk_socketd(8)
.BR ldd(1)
.BR mknod(1)
.BR ln(1)
.BR chmod(1)
.BR mkdir(1)

.SH COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2003, 2004, 2005, Olivier Sessink

Copying and distribution of this file, with or without modification,
are permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright
notice and this notice are preserved.
