.TH jk_update 8 06-12-2006 JAILKIT jk_update

.SH NAME
jk_update \- a utility to update a jail according to changes on the real system 

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B jk_update -j <jail>

.B jk_update -v -d -k -j <jail> -s <file to skip> <dir to scan for updates>

.B jk_update --verbose --dry-run --hardlink --jail=<jail> --skip=<file to skip> <dir to scan for updates>

.SH DESCRIPTION

jk_update will compare the files in a jail with the corresponding files on the real system. If the corresponding file on the real system is newer, and the file on the real system is different, the file from the real system will be copied to the jail including any required libraries just like jk_cp would do.

By default jk_update will scan /usr, /bin, /opt, and /lib for updates. If one or more arguments is passed as directories to update, these default directries are not scanned, unless they are part of the arguments.

.B jk_update -j <jail>
will scan <jail>/usr, <jail>/bin, <jail>/opt, and <jail>/lib, while
.B jk_update -j <jail> /bin
will only scan <jail>/bin

.SH WARNING

If you have changed files in the jail, it is recommended to do a "dry run" first and see what jk_update will do. jk_update does now know if a file is manually changed or not. If a file in the jail is older and different from the file on the real system it is updated. Use the skip option to exclude any files that you changed manually.

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.BR \-v\ \-\-verbose
Will give verbose output
.TP
.BR \-h\ \-\-help
The help screen
.TP
.BR \-j\ <jail>\ \-\-jail=<jail>
The jail to update
.TP
.BR \-d\ \-\-dry\-run
Do a "dry run". Show what will be done but don't do anything.
.TP
.BR \-k\ \-\-hardlink
Try to create hardlinks instead of copying the files when updating
.TP
.BR \-s\ <file\ to\ skip>\ \-\-skip\ <file\ to\ skip>
Do not update this file. The argument can either be the path in the jail or the path on the real system. In order to skip multiple files, use this option multiple times. 

.SH "SEE ALSO"

.BR jailkit(8)
.BR jk_check(8)
.BR jk_chrootlaunch(8)
.BR jk_chrootsh(8)
.BR jk_init(8)
.BR jk_list(8)
.BR jk_lsh(8)
.BR jk_cp(8)
.BR jk_procmailwrapper(8)
.BR jk_socketd(8)

.SH COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, Olivier Sessink

Copying and distribution of this file, with or without modification,
are permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright
notice and this notice are preserved.
